>> Ifill: FRAMING A NUCLEAR
AGREEMENT WITH IRAN.
THE OUTLINES OF A TENTATIVE DEAL
TO CURTAIL IRAN'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM AND END CRIPPLING
SANCTIONS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS ON ASSIGNMENT.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY:
FORCED INTO A RUNOFF, CHICAGO
MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL DEFENDS HIS
RECORD AGAINST AN UNDERDOG
CANDIDATE WITH LESS FAME, POWER
AND MONEY.
PLUS, AN AMERICAN DREAM IN
CRISIS.
WHY THE FUTURE IS LESS BRIGHT
FOR POOR KIDS IN SMALL-TOWN
AMERICA, WHERE WEALTH DETERMINES
WHERE YOU CAN GO.
>> AMERICA IS SILENTLY BUT
REALLY IMPORTANTLY BECOMING
INCREASINGLY SEGREGATED BY HOW
MUCH YOU EARN AND HOW MUCH
EDUCATION YOU HAVE.
>> Ifill: AND, ENTREPRENEURS
DESIGN HIGH TECH DEVICES
MARKETED TO AGING BABY BOOMERS,
WHO WANT STAY HEALTHY AND
ACTIVE.
>> THE STEREOTYPE THAT OLD
PEOPLE DON'T LIKE THE
TECHNOLOGY.
I WANT TO BREAK THAT RIGHT NOW.
I LOVE THESE TECHNOLOGICAL
DEVICES.
I JUST NEED TO SEE HOW THEY'RE
GOING TO SERVE ME.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU DENIED TODAY
HE'S REJECTED ANY POSSIBILITY OF
A FUTURE PALESTINIAN STATE.
HE'D APPEARED TO DO JUST THAT,
IN THE CLOSING DAYS OF HIS
ELECTION CAMPAIGN.
BUT TODAY, HE TOLD MSNBC HIS
POSITION HAS NOT CHANGED:
NAMELY, THAT A PALESTINIAN STATE
IS POSSIBLE, UNDER CERTAIN
CONDITIONS.
>> I DON'T WANT A ONE-STATE
SOLUTION.
I WANT A SUSTAINABLE, PEACEFUL
TWO-STATE SOLUTION.
BUT FOR THAT, CIRCUMSTANCES HAVE
TO CHANGE.
WE NEED THE CONDITIONS OF THE
RECOGNITION OF THE JEWISH STATE
AND REAL SECURITY IN ORDER TO
HAVE A REALISTIC TWO-STATE
SOLUTION.
AND I WAS TALKING ABOUT WHAT IS
ACHIEVABLE AND WHAT IS NOT
ACHIEVABLE.
>> Ifill: LATER, PRESIDENT OBAMA
TELEPHONED NETANYAHU TO
CONGRATULATE HIM ON HIS ELECTION
WIN.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAID MR. OBAMA
REAFFIRMED THE U.S. COMMITMENT
TO A TWO-STATE SOLUTION.
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY TODAY FOR AN
ATTACK IN TUNISIA THAT LEFT 23
PEOPLE DEAD, MOSTLY EUROPEAN
TOURISTS.
THEY WERE KILLED YESTERDAY IN A
HAIL OF BULLETS AT A FAMED
MUSEUM IN TUNIS, THE COUNTRY'S
CAPITAL.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JONATHAN
MILLER OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
ARRESTS WERE MADE OF THE DEAD
GUNMAN'S ALLEGED ACCOMPLICES.
AT THE PORT, TRAUMATIZED
TOURISTS HUGGED IN SMALL GROUPS
IN THE SPRING MORNING SUNLIGHT.
12 OF THE DEAD WERE FROM THE
CRUISE SHIP SPELNDIDA.
13 MORE WOUNDED.
THE HUGE VESSEL HAD EARLIER
SAILED OFF INTO THE SUNRISE,
LEAVING ITS DEAD AND ITS WOUNDED
BEHID.N
>> I'M LIKELY HAPPY TO SEE YOU.
>> Reporter: BUT A YOUNG
SPANISH COUPLE HAD A REMARKABLE
ESCAPE.
HERE A TUNISIA GOVERNMENT
MINISTER'S GREETING, JUAN CARLOS
SANCHEZ, HIND ALL NIGHT IN A
CUPBOARD WITH HIS PREGNANT
PARTNER CHRISTINA RUBIO.
AS WE WERE LEAVING, HE SAYS, HE
SAW THEM SHOOTING PEOPLE BY THE
DOOR.
THEY SHOT ONE AND WE REALIZED
WHAT WAS GOING ON AND WE HID.
WE HEARD EVERYTHIG, NHE SAID.
THE ASSAULT ON THE NATIONAL
MUSEUM TOOK PLACE AT NOON
YESTERDAY WITH AT LEAST TWO
MILITANTS OPENING FIRE ON TOUR
BUSES AND VISITORS DISEMBARKED,
BEFORE RUSHING INTO THE MUSEUM
ITSELF.
VARIOUS JIHADI GROUPS HAVE BEEN
IN THE FRAME BUT THIS AFTERNOON
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP CLAIMED
THE MUSEUM ATTACK.
TODAY, AT POLICE H.Q., THEY I
HAD HOMAGE TO AND THEN LAID TO
REST THE ANTI-TERRORIST OFFICER
MORIAN, KILLED IN THE ATTACK.
TUNISIA'S INTERIOR MINISTER
SPOKE AT HIS FUNERAL.
WE WILL ERADICATE TERRORISM, HE
SAID.
WE ARE CONFIDENT AND WE HAVE THE
SUPPORT OF OUR PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: ALSO TODAY, U.N.
INVESTIGATORS ACCUSED ISLAMIC
STATE FORCES OF GENOCIDE AND WAR
CRIMES IN IRAQ.
A HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT CHARGED
THE MILITANTS TRIED TO WIPE OUT
THE COUNTRY'S YAZIDI MINORITY.
THEY ALLEGEDLY CARRIED OUT MASS
KILLINGS OF YAZIDI MEN, AND
ENSLAVED AND RAPED WOMEN AND
CHILDREN AS YOUNG AS SIX.
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP SEIZED
LARGE PARTS OF IRAQ AND SYRIA
LAST SUMMER.
THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, AND
THE STATE'S GOVERNOR, ARE
EXPRESSING OUTRAGE OVER THE
ARREST OF A BLACK STUDENT THAT
LEFT HIM BLEEDING, EARLY
WEDNESDAY.
ALCOHOL CONTROL AGENTS WRESTLED
MARTESE JOHNSON TO THE GROUND
OUTSIDE A BAR.
THEY SAID HE ACTED
"BELLIGERENT."
LAST NIGHT, 1,000 PROTESTERS
GATHERED ON U.V.A.'S CAMPUS IN
CHARLOTTESVILLE, DEMANDING AN
INVESTIGATION.
JOHNSON TOOK PART AND APPEALED
FOR CALM.
>> I BEG FOR YOU GUYS,
REGARDLESS OF YOUR PERSONAL
OPINONS AND THE WAY YOU FEEL
ABOUT SUBJECTS, TO PLEASE
RESPECT EVERYONE, WE ARE ALL A
PART OF ONE COMMUNITY.
[APPLAUSE]
AND WE DESERVE TO RESPECT EACH
OTHER, ESPECIALLY IN TIMES LIKE
THIS.
>> Ifill: THE 20-YEAR-OLD
STUDENT HAD NO PRIOR CRIMINAL
RECORD.
HIS LAWYER SAYS HIS HEAD
INJURIES REQUIRED 10 STITCHES.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ORDERED FEDERAL
AGENCIES TODAY TO CUT GREENHOUSE
GAS EMISSIONS.
THEY'RE TO BE REDUCED 40% OVER
THE NEXT DECADE, FROM 2008
LEVELS.
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS SAID IT
COULD SAVE TAXPAYERS AS MUCH AS
$18 BILLION IN ELECTRICITY
COSTS.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO HAD A ROYAL
VISIT THIS AFTERNOON.
HE MET WITH BRITAIN'S PRINCE
CHARLES AND HIS WIFE CAMILLA,
THE DUCHESS OF CORNWALL, IN THE
OVAL OFFICE.
THEY'RE IN THE MIDDLE OF A FOUR-
DAY TRIP TO THE UNITED STATES.
AND, WALL STREET LOST SOME OF
YESTERDAY'S GAINS AS FALLING OIL
PRICES HURT ENERGY STOCKS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST MORE THAN 100 POINTS TO
CLOSE BELOW 18,000 AGAIN, AND
THE S&P 500 DROPPED 10.
THE NASDAQ WAS THE EXCEPTION,
RISING NINE POINTS.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE LATEST ON A POSSIBLE NUCLEAR
DEAL WITH IRAN.
TRANSPARENCY, OR THE LACK OF IT,
AT THE OBAMA WHITE HOUSE.
CHICAGO'S RUNOFF ELECTION FOR
MAYOR HEATS UP.
WHY POOR KIDS ARE LESS LIKELY TO
FIND A LEG UP.
TECH START-UPS DESIGN INNOVATIVE
PRODUCTS FOR OLDER AMERICANS.
AND, A NEW MEMOIR ON THE
CHALLENGES FOR CAREGIVERS, WHEN
THE ROLE OF PARENT AND CHILD ARE
REVERSED.
>> Ifill: WITH A DEADLINE FAST
APPROACHING FOR AN IRAN NUCLEAR
DEAL, NEGOTIATORS IN SWITZERLAND
AND OFFICIALS IN WASHINGTON
OFFERED CONFLICTING ASSESSMENTS
TODAY ABOUT WHERE THINGS STAND.
>> I CAN TELL YOU THAT THAT
REPORT IS NOT ACCURATE.
THAT THERE IS NO SUCH DRAFT
CUMEDONT THAT IS BEING
CIRCULATED.
SPOKEWOMAN P CHALLENGE THE
LATEST ACCOUNT OF A DRAFT
AGREEMENT NEGOTIATED WITH IRAN.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
TODAY A POTENTIAL DEAL WOULD CUT
IRAN'S CENTRIFUGES FOR ENRICHING
URANIUM BY 40% FROM 10,000 TO
6,000 FOR AT LEAST A DECADE.
THE U.S.
THE U.S. HAD INITIALLY SOUGHT A
MAXIMUM OF 1,500 CENTRIFUGES,
IN EXCHANGE FOR THE 40%
REDUCTION, WASHINGTON WOULD
AGREE TO PHASE OUT ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS.
AND POSSIBLY, GET THE U.N. TO
AGREE TO ROLL BACK AN ARMS
EMBARGO.
IN LAUSANNE, SWITZERLAND TODAY,
WHERE TALKS ARE UNDERWAY, IRAN'S
FOREIGN MINISTER  SOUNDED
CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC.
>> WE ARE MAKING PROGRESS BUT
THERE ARE ISSUES THAT NEED TO BE
SOLVREED.
>> Ifill: BUT SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY SAID THE U.S. IS
STILL "PUSHING SOME TOUGH
ISSUES," AND A SENIOR EUROPEAN
NEGOTIATOR REPORTED THE SIDES
ARE STILL FAR APART.
ALL OF THIS FOLLOWS THE ISRAELI
PRIME MINISTER'S FIERY SPEECH TO
CONGRESS, WARNING AGAINST ANY
DEAL, AND THE SENATE REPUBLICAN
WARNING LETTER TO IRAN.
THERE'VE ALSO BEEN BIPARTISAN
CALLS FOR CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL
OF ANY AGREEMENT, AND POSSIBLY,
ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS, IF THE
TALKS FAIL.
AND WITH ME NOW IS GEORGE JAHN,
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER
WHO BROKE THE STORY ABOUT THE
LATEST NEGOTIATIONS.
GEORGE, THIS DRAFT PROPOSAL THAT
WOULD BRING DOWN IRAN'S
CENTRIFUGES BY 40%, HOW REAL IS
IT?
>> IT'S AS REAL AS ANYTHING
WE'RE GETTING OUT OF THESE
CONFIDENTIAL NEGOTIATIONS.
WE DO VET OUR STORIES VERY
CAREFULLY AND SEVERAL OFFICIALS
WHO ARE CLOSE TO THE TOP DID
TELL US THAT THIS DOCUMENT IS
BEING DISCUSSED BETWEEN IRAN AND
THE UNITED STATES.
OF COURSE, IT'S PART OF A BIGGER
DEAL, IF A DEAL IS GOING TO BE
SHAPING UP.
SO WE'RE NOT THERE YET, BUT IT'S
DEFINITELY ON THE TABLE.
>> Ifill: SO WHEN THE WHITE
HOUSE SAYS THE REPORT IS NOT
ACCURATE, THEY MEAN IT'S NOT
ACCURATE IT'S A DONE DEAL OR
THESE THINGS ARE FLOATING
AROUND?
>> THEY'RE NOT DENYING THERE IS
A DRAFT.
THEY'RE BASICALLY SAYING IT'S
NOT BEING HANDED AROUND TO A
WIDER CIRCLE.
IT'S BETWEEN, AT THIS POINT,
MOSTLY BETWEEN U.S. AND IRANIAN
NEGOTIATORS.
>> Ifill: BUT THE QUESTION
ABOUT HARDWARE AND CENTRIFUGES,
THAT'S NOT THE WHOLE STORY WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IN THESE
NEGOTIATIONS.
>> OH, NOT AT ALL.
NOT AT ALL.
THE CENTRIFUGES ARE VERY, VERY
CRUCIAL TO A DEAL, NUMBERS ARE
VERY CRUCIAL TO A DEAL, BUT
CENTRIFUGES ARE PART OF THE
ENRICHMENT PROGRAM, AND
ENRICHMENT IS ONLY ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT IS BEING NEGOTIATED,
ALTHOUGH IT'S PROBABLY THE MOST
IMPORTANT ISSUE.
WE HAVE BEEN TOLD SEVERAL TIMES
OVER THESE NEGOTIATIONS THAT IF
THE ENRICHMENT ISSUE IS
BASICALLY DONE AND DEALT WITH,
THE OTHER COMPONENTS SHOULD FALL
INTO PLACE.
>> Ifill: SO ON ONE HAND WE
HAVE IRANIAN ISSUES SAYING
EVERYTHING'S DONE BUT THE
TECHNICAL DETAILS, AND WE HAVE
THE WHITE HOUSE AND OTHERS WHO
ARE MORE CAUTIOUS.
ARE THEY BASICALLY SAYING THE
SAME THING, JUST LESS WILLING TO
GO AS FAR.
>> EVERYONE IN THE NEGOTIATIONS
HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY, THE
FRENCH ARE TOUGHER THAN THE
AMERICANS ON WHAT THEY WANT FROM
THE IRANIANS AND ARE SPINNING
THEIR OWN MESSAGE.
BUT WHAT IS BEING SPREAD
PUBLICLY ISN'T NECESSARILY
WHAT'S HAPPENING AT THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE.
I THINK IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT THE
IRANIANS ARE SAYING AND WHAT THE
AMERICANS ARE SAYING, THERE IS
ONE COMMON DENOMINATOR, THERE IS
PROGRESS BEING MADE, BUT BOTH
SIDES ARE SAYING THEY'RE NOT
THERE YET.
>> Ifill: IT'S INTERESTING,
GEORGE, HERE, THIS IS ALL COMING
ABOUT AGAINST A BACKDROP OF
CONGRESSIONAL THREATS, ACTION
AND INACTION.
DOES THAT INFLUENCE OR DOES THAT
CAST A PALL OVER THESE
NEGOTIATIONS AT THIS POINT?
>> IN SOME WAY, YES.
IT WAS INTERESTING THAT THE
IRANIANS BROUGHT UP THAT ISSUE
SEVERAL TIMES AT THE INITIAL
MEETINGS WHICH BEGAN EARLIER
THIS WEEK, SO IT'S DEMPLET
SOMETHING THEY'RE FINDING HARD
TO IGNORE.
OF COURSE, I WOULD EXPECT THE
AMERICAN NEGOTIATORS TO
BASICALLY PLAY DOWN THE
CONGRESSIONAL THREATS AND SAY,
AT THIS POINT, WE NEED TO HAVE A
DEAL.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS
BEHIND THE DEAL IF WE GET ONE.
THE ADMINISTRATION HAS A LOT OF
TOOLS, IF YOU WILL, TO MAKE SURE
THAT A DEAL IS HONORED.
>> Ifill: ARE WE THINKING
MARCH 31, MORE OR LESS LIKELY
THIS WEEK TO MAKE THAT DEADLINE?
>> WELL, IF I HAD A CRYSTAL
GLASS, I WOULD BE WRITING AN
EXCLUSIVE.
I THINK IT'S POSSIBLE THERE WILL
BE AN ANNOUNCEMENT IN THIS
ROUND.
IT'S ALSO POSSIBLE THIS ROUND
WILL BE EXTENDED BEYOND FRIDAY
WHICH IS THE ORIGINAL END DATE,
BUT REMEMBER THERE'S STILL MORE
THAN A WEEK TO GO UNTIL THE END
OF THE MONTH, SO IT'S QUITE
POSSIBLE THAT IT ALMOST GET
THERE THIS TIME, THEY WILL JUST
CALL ANOTHER ROUND TO FINISH
THINGS OFF.
>OFF.
>> Ifill: A LOT COULD HAPPEN
BETWEEN NOW AND THEN.
YOU'RE RIGHT ABILITY THAT.
GEORGE JAHN, ASSOCIATED PRESS,
THANK YOU.
>> MY
>> Ifill: EVEN BEFORE HE WAS
ELECTED, PRESIDENT OBAMA
PROMISED HIS WOULD BE THE MOST
OPEN AND TRANSPARENT
ADMINISTRATION EVER.
HE CAN CLAIM SOME CREDIT FOR
SOME PROGRESS ON THAT FRONT,
INCLUDING OPENING UP
PRESIDENTIAL RECORDS,
DECLASSIFYING SOME DATA, AND
PUSHING FEDERAL AGENCIES TO
REVEAL MORE INFORMATION TO THE
PUBLIC.
BUT BY OTHER MEASURES, MANY
EXPERTS AND JOURNALISTS SAY THE
ADMINISTRATION FALLS FAR SHORT,
INCLUDING IN ITS TREATMENT OF
HIGH-PROFILE WHISTLEBLOWERS.
AND A NEW ASSOCIATED PRESS
ANALYSIS SAYS THE ADMINISTRATION
HAS SET A RECORD FOR DENYING
ACCESS TO FILES OR CENSORING
THEM UNDER THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE ANALYSIS
LOOKED AT REQUESTS FOR
INFORMATION MADE TO 100 FEDERAL
AGENCIES LAST YEAR BY CITIZENS,
JOURNALISTS AND BUSINESSES.
MORE THAN 700,000 REQUESTS WERE
MADE.
THE A.P. SAID THE ADMINISTRATION
EITHER DENIED ACCESS TO
INFORMATION OR CENSORED IN 39%
OF THOSE REQUESTS, MORE THAN
250,00 CASES OVERALL.
SOMETIMES THE DENIAL WAS SMALL,
SUCH AS A PHONE NUMBER.
SOMETIMES IT WAS THE MAJORITY OF
A DOCUMENT.
ON TUESDAY, WHITE HOUSE
SPOKESMAN JOSH EARNEST WAS
PRESSED ON THE ADMINISTRATION'S
TRANSPARENCY.
HIS ANALYSIS WAS QUITE
DIFFERENT.
THE ADMINISTRATION, WE
ACTUALLY HAVE A LOT TO BRAG
ABOUT WHEN IT COMES TO THE
RESPONSE TO THE FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION REQUESTS.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT RELEASED
METRICS TO FISCAL YEAR 2014.
THE ADMINISTRATION IN FISCAL
YEAR 2014 ALONE PROCESSED
647,142 REQUESTS AND OVER 91% OF
THE REQUESTS RESULTED IN THE
RELEASE OF SOME
WE LOOK AT THESE CONCERNS AROUND
ACCESS AND TRANSPARENCY WITH
STEPHEN ENGELBERG, THE EDITOR-
IN-CHIEF OF PROPUBLICA, A NEWS
ORGANIZATION KNOWN FOR ITS
INVESTIGATIONS AND JOURNALISM ON
THESE TOPICS.
WE DID INVITE THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TO APPEAR BUT IT
DECLINED OUR REQUEST.
WE DID INVITE THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION FOR AN INTERVIEW
BUT THEY DESIGNED.
THEY WANT TO SAY LOOK AT ALL
THESE FREEDOM OF REQUESTS WE DID
ANSWER AND OBVIOUSLY JOURNALISTS
ARE UNHAPPY WITH THAT.
>> LET'S BE CLEAR, THE FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION LAW HAS NEVER
BEEN FULLY FUNCTIONAL, RIGHT?
THE ADMINISTRATION IS SUPPOSED
TO ANSWER IN A CERTAIN NUMBER OF
DAYS, THEY NEVER DO.
ALL ADMINISTRATIONS HAVE BLOCKED
OUT HUGE SWATHS OF SENSITIVE
DOCUMENTS, SO KNOT NOG IN ONE
ACCEPTS.
ANECDOTALLY WE'VE HAD A SENSE
IT'S GOTTEN WORSE AND THE A.P.
DOWNFIRMS IT IS WORSE AND NEVER
HAS BEEN GREAT.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW SIT WORSE
FOR A JOURNALIST TO DRAW
ACCESSED INFORMATION FROM THE
ADMINISTRATION.
>> THE ADMINISTRATION CAMPAIGNED
ON WANTING TO BE EPICALLY
TRANSPARENT AND THAT'S CLEARLY
WHAT'S HAPPENED.
THEY HAVE PURSUED AN AGGRESSIVE
CAMPAIGN AGAINST LEAKERS AND
WHISTLEBLOWERS.
THEY'VE TRIED TO JAIL PEOPLE.
THEY HAVE, I THINK WITHIN THE
ADMINISTRATION, KIND OF A LEVEL
OF FEDERAL AGENCIES, YOU KNOW,
VERY BASIC INTERVIEWS.
MY REPORTERS SAID YOU USED TO GO
TO THE E.P.A. AND TALK TO A
SCIENTIST ABOUT AN ISSUE.
TODAY WILL THEY NOT ONLY NOT
ALLOW THE INTERVIEW WITHOUT A
SPOKESMAN PRESENT, THEY DON'T
ALLOW THE INTERVIEW AT ALL.
I THINK THE CROWD WAS GOOD IN
THE CAMPAIGNS ABOUT STAYING ON
MESSAGE, DISCIPLINED CONTROLLING
INFORMATION AND HAVE BROUGHT
THAT TO THE GOVERNMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE
ADMINISTRATION PUT OUT A NOTION
SAYING THEY'VE EXTENDED AND
STRENGTHENED WHISTLE BLOWERS.
>> YOU CAN HAVE ALL THE RULES
YOU WANT.
WE TALK TO A LOT OF
WHISTLEBLOWERS AND THERE HAVE
BEEN PROMINENT ONCE.
THEY DON'T BELIEVE A WORD OF IT.
THEY BELIEVE THEY WILL BE
RETALIATED AGAINST.
EDWARD SNOWDEN LOOKED AT WHAT
HAPPENED TO OTHER PEOPLE IN THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY WHO TRIED
TO COME FORWARD QUIETLY AND HAD
CAREERS QUASHED AND SAID, NO,
I'M NOT DOING THAT, I'M CONTACT
AGO JOURNALIST.
HE SAID AND I BELIEVE HIM THAT
HE DID NOT BELIEVE THE
PROTECTIONS WOULD EXTEND TO HIM,
THAT HE WOULD EITHER GET BURIED
OR PUNISHED.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE
RIPPLE EFFECT WHEN YOU HAVE A
PUBLIC PROFILE TO HAVE THE
WHISTLE BLOWERS?
>> ON THE ONE HAND, AN IMMEDIATE
AND CHILLING EFFECT.
PEOPLE FEEL THEY COULD BE
ARRESTED OR PROSECUTED.
YOU HAVE LESS EASE OF DOING
JOURNALISM.
I THINK PARADOXICALLY, YOU
ENCOURAGE THAT SMALL NUMBER OF
PEOPLE WHO ARE ZEALOUS ABOUT
GETTING INFORMATION OUT TO BE
EMBOLDENED AND SAID IF NO ONE
WHETHER COME THRO THIS ATMOSPHEF
FEAR, I WILL PICK UP THE PHONE
AND CALL, I HOPE,
ProPublica.
THAT IS WHY WE'VE SEEN MORE
TIGHTNESS ON INFORMATION BUT
MORE MASSIVE REEKS.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS PART
OF THE STRATEGY INSIDE THE
ADMINISTRATION?
>> I BELIEVE IT IS.
I BELIEVE THEY LOOK BACK AT SOME
OF THE PREDECESSORS IN THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION, FIRST YEARS OF
THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION AND
SAID WE ARE NOT LIVING IN AN
ATMOSPHERE WHERE EVERYTHING IS
BEING CONSTANTLY BROODED ABOUT
IN THE PRESS AND THEY HAVE BEEN
VERY SUCCESSFUL.
THEY DID THE CUBA POLICY
REVERSAL.
ONE OF THE MOST POLITICAL THINGS
YOU CAN IMAGINE.
I HAVE TO SAY, WHEN I WAS IN
WASHINGTON, THAT KIND OF THING
WOULD HAVE GOTTEN OUT.
AND THEY, YOU KNOW, MANAGED TO
COMPLETELY TURN UPSIDE DOWN AN
50 YEAR EMBARGO.
THAT'S AN AMAZING PIECE OF
DISCIPLINE THAT SPEAKS TO THEIR
SUCCESS IN CONTROLLING THEIR
INFORMATION.
I SEE WHY THEY DO IT.
THE PROBLEM IS I THINK THERE IS
SOMETHING TO HAVING THE POLICY
DEBATES IN A MORE PUBLIC WAY AND
THEY'RE MISSING OUT ON THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THE
GOVERNMENT AFFORDED ANY CREDIT
IN THEIR CONTENTION THAT THEY
HAVE INCREASED TRANSPARENCY OF
GOVERNMENT SPENDING DATA, OF
MODERNIZING GOVERNMENT RECORDS,
TRYING TO PUT HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF DATA SETS AND MAKE
THEM AVAILABLE, MEAN, THOSE ARE
STEPS THEY SA SAY NO ADMINISTRAN
BEFORE THEM HAS BEEN ABLE TO DO
AND THAT HELPS YOUR REPORTING.
>> I THINK THAT'S ABSOLUTELY
FAIR.
WE HAVE AT "ProPublica"
BENEFITED FROM OPENNESS ON
MEDICAL DATA.
WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO SAY THINGS
ABOUT THE WAY SPENDING IS DONE
IN MEDICARE PROGRAMS AND
MEDICARE PART D PROGRAM THAT HAS
NEVER BEEN DONE AND I THINK THEY
DESERVE CREDIT FOR THAT, BUT
LET'S BE CLEAR, THAT IS THE EASY
STUFF.
WHEN YOU GET TO THE QUESTION
ABOUT WHAT'S THE PRESIDENT GOING
TO DO ABOUT SYRIA OR HOW TO
HANDLE THE QUESTIONS ABOUT
IMMIGRATION, TO HAVE NO DEBATE
OR PROGRAMS SUDDENLY DROPPED ON
PEOPLE'S HEADS, IT WORKS IN THE
SHORT TERM BUT NOT LONG TERM FOR
ANY OF US.
>> Sreenivasan: STEPHEN
ENGELBERG, THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: CHICAGO VOTERS RETURN
TO THE POLLS NEXT MONTH IN THAT
CITY'S FIRST RUNOFF ELECTION FOR
MAYOR.
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S FORMER CHIEF
OF STAFF, CURRENT MAYOR RAHM
EMANUEL, IS IN A RACE AGAINST
COOK COUNTY COMMISSIONER JESUS
"CHUY" GARCIA.
THEIR CONTEST IS EXPOSING A REAL
DIVIDE WITHIN THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT CHRIS BURY
HAS OUR STORY.
>> Reporter: IN CHICAGO, WHERE
THE IRISH-AMERICAN DALEY CLAN
DOMINATED FOR DECADES, CHICAGO'S
FIRST JEWISH MAYOR, RAHM
EMANUEL, LED THE SAINT PATRICK'S
DAY PARADE.
NOT FAR BEHIND, HIS CHALLENGER,
A LITTLE-KNOWN COUNTY
COMMISSIONER BORN IN DURANGO,
MEXICO: JESUS "CHUY" GARCIA.
>> HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S DAY,
CHUY.
>> Reporter: THAT EMANUEL EVEN
HAS A COMPETITOR IS A STUNNING
SETBACK FOR THE HARD DRIVING
DEMOCRATIC INSIDER.
BUT HIS FAILURE TO GET A
MAJORITY IN THE FEBRUARY
ELECTION, DESPITE VASTLY OUT-
SPENDING HIS RIVALS, FORCED HIM
INTO A RUNOFF.
WHY DOES THIS MAYOR WITH EVERY
ADVANTAGE, INCUMBENCY, MONEY,
ALLIES LIKE THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, WHY IS HE
FIGHTING FOR HIS POLITICAL LIFE?
>> BECAUSE PEOPLE OF CHICAGO
DON'T LIKE HIM.
>> Reporter: THE CHICAGO
TRIBUNE COLUMNIST JOHN CAST
BLAMES EMANUEL'S ABRASIVE
PERSONALITY FOR HIS LACK LUSTER
SHOWING IN AN ELECTION WHERE
NEARLY TWO IN THREE VOTERS
STAYED HOME.
>> HE KNOWS IT IS A PROBLEM FOR
HIM, A SERIOUS PROBLEM.
IT'S NOT ABOUT COMPETENCY WITH
HIM.
PEOPLE KNOW HE'S COMPETENT OR
FEEL HE'S COMPETENT.
>> I CAN RUB PEOPLE THE WRONG
WAY OR TALK WHEN I SHOULD
LISTEN.
I OWN THAT.
>> Reporter: IN A REMARKABLE
TV AD, EMANUEL ACKNOWLEDGES HIS
PERSONALITY PROBLEM BUT ARGUES
IT HELPS IN HIS JOB.
>> AND WITH WHEN BUSINESS
INTERESTS SAID A
$13 MINIMUM-WAGE WAS TOO HIGH, I
DIDN'T BACK DOWN.
>> Reporter: HIS OPPONENT, CHU
CHUY GARCIE, ENTERED WHEN OTHER
HIGH PROFILE NAMES DECIDED NOT
TO RUN INCLUDING THE HEAD OF THE
TEACHERS UNION WHO RALLIED 4,000
TEACHERS TO HELP GARCIA GET OUT
THE VOTE.
(CHANTING)
FOR CHUY GARCIA'S CAMPAIGN, THE
DRIVING MESSAGE IS A TALE OF TWO
CITIES.
HE CALLS RAHM EMANUEL MAYOR 1%
ACCUSING HIM OF CATERING TO THE
GIANT CORPORATIONS AND THEIR
C.E.O.s IN THE GLEAMING
SKYSCRAPERS DOWNTOWN.
GARCIA PORTRAYS HIMSELF AS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD GUY, MORE IN TOUCH
WITH ORDINARY CHICAGOANS.
>> MY ROOTS ARE ROOTS EMBEDDED
IN CHICAGO NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
UNDERSTAND THAT THE FIRST
IMPORTANT THING TO BRING ABOUT
CHANGE IS PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: AMONG GARCIA'S
FAVORITE BACKDROPS ARE ABANDONED
SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
HE HAS EXPLOITED THE CITY'S
DECISION TO CLOSE 50 POORLY
ATTENDED AND UNDERPERFORMING
SCHOOLS, COSTING EMANUEL SUPPORT
IN THE MINORITY COMMUNITIES
WHERE THEY WERE LOCATED.
>> OUR SCHOOLS THAT HE CLOSED
WERE IN AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND
LATIN-AMERICAN COMMUNITIES, SO
YOU ATTACKED THE VERY PEOPLE WHO
VOTED FOR YOU THE FIRST TIME.
WHO WOULD VOTE FOR HIM AGAIN?
YOU WOULD HAVE TO BE CRAZY.
>> Reporter: GARCIA HIT A
NERVE PROMISING TO TAKE DOWN
MORE THAN 300 RED LIGHT CAMERAS,
MONEY MACHINES FOR THE CITY THAT
ANGERED DRIVERS.
EMANUEL BACKED DOWN ORDERING 50
REMOVED.
>> HE TALKED ABOUT IT AS POLICY
BUT COULDN'T SELL IT AS A POLICY
CHANGE.
IT'S A POLITICAL ACT, AS THE
PEOPLE KNOW, AND SUGGESTS PANIC.
>> Reporter: IN THE SOUTH SIDE
CAFETERIA ONE OF BARACK OBAMA'S
OLD HAUNTS WE SAT DOWN WITH
VOTERS LEANING EACH WAY.
>> I'M LEANING TOWARD EMANUEL.
HE HAS THE REPUTATION OF BEING A
TOUGH, FEISTY GUY.
I FEEL LIKE THAT'S WHAT WE NEED
IN THE MAYOR OF CHICAGO, I THINK
THAT'S WHAT WE GOT AND WE STILL
NEED THAT.
>> I'M LEANING TOWARDS JESUS
"CHUY" GARCIA.
I THINK IT'S PRETTY CLEAR, IN MY
OPINION, THERE ARE ASSOCIATIVE
REASONS FOR THAT INCLUDING
THINGS THAT HAVE AFFECTED PEOPLE
DIRECTLY, THEIR FAMILIES AND
POCKETBOOKS, INCLUDING THE
CLOSING OF SCHOOLS, STREET
CAMERAS AND COSTING PEOPLE EXTRA
MONEY ON TAXES.
>> Reporter: OUT IN THE
MELTING POT OF CHICAGO
NEIGHBORHOODS, EMANUEL IS
SOFTENING HIS TOUGH-GUY IMAGE,
TELLING HIS OWN FAMILIES
IMMIGRANT'S STORY TO CONNECT
WITH ETHNIC VOTERS.
>> ABOUT 100 YEARS AGO MY
GRANDFATHER CAME TO THIS CITY
AND IN TWO GENERATIONS HIS
GRANDSON IS THE MAYOR OF THIS
GREAT CITY, IT TELLS YOU VOLUMES
ABOUT WHY CHICAGO IS THE MOST
AMERICAN OF AMERICAN CITIES.
>> Reporter: EMANUEL IS ON THE
DEFENSIVE ABOUT GARCIA'S MOST
DAMAGING CRITICISM THAT HE
NEGLECTS THE CITY'S POCKETS OF
POVERTY IN FAVOR TO HAVE THE
RICH AND POWERFUL.
>> HOW DO YOU RESPOND TO THE
ACCUSATIONS FROM OPPONENTS THAT
YOU ARE THE MAYOR OF 1%?
>> Reporter: NOT TRUE, EMANUEL
SAYS, TOUTING HIS REFORMS TO
PUBLIC EDUCATION.
>> I MADE SURE EVERY CHILD HAS
FULL DAY KINDERGARTEN AND GOING
FORWARD UNIVERSAL PRE-K OF
4-YEAR-OLDS.
THOSE ARE THE MOST BEDROCK OF
CHICAGO'S FUTURE AND THAT'S HOW
YOU CREATE A MIDDLE CLASS.
>> Reporter: BUT EMANUEL IS
ALSO PLAYING OFFENSE.
>> CREATIVE SOURCES OF
FINANCING --
>> Reporter: RELENTLESS TV ADS
ACCUSE GARCIA OF BEING UNABLE TO
PAY FOR ALL HIS PROMISES IN A
CITY STRUGGLING WITH MASSIVE
DEBT.
GARCIA HAS ONLY BEEN ABLE TO
AFFORD A HANDFUL OF COMMERCIALS.
>> THIS USED TO BE A SCHOOL
UNTIL THE MAYOR SHUT IT DOWN.
>> THE MAYOR IS STILL
OUTSPENDING YOU 7, 8 TO 1,
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS MORE THAN
YOU WILL EVER GET ON TELEVISION
COMMERCIALS.
WILL YOU CATCH UP?
>> OF COURSE, NOT ONLY CATCH UP
BUT OVERTAKE THE MAYOR.
>> Reporter: GARCIA HAS
STIRRED OBVIOUS PRIDE IN THE
CITY'S HISPANIC NEIGHBORHOODS
WHERE SUPPORTERS ARE PREDICTING
A CHUY BUMP AMONG LATINO VOTERS.
BUT THE REAL BATTLE IS FOR
AFRICAN-AMERICAN VOTERS WHO MAKE
UP A THIRD OF THE ELECTORATE.
MAYS JACKSON, A DEMOCRATIC
STRATEGIST, SAYS THEY ARE
DIVIDED.
>> THERE IS PEOPLE WHO ARE ANGRY
AT RAHM, BUT THEN YOU HAVE
PEOPLE WHO SAY I'M NOT GOING TO
ELECT A LATINO BECAUSE THEY
DON'T TRUST THE OUTCOME.
>> HI, ARE YOU AWARE CHUY IS
RUNNING?
>> YES, I AM.
>> Reporter: GRARSIA'S SURGE
HAS GIVEN HOPE TO DEMOCRATS WHO
WANT A MORE LIBERAL CANDIDATE TO
TAKE ON HILLARY CLINTON IN 2016.
COMMUNITY ORGANIZER PATEL LEADS
A GRASSROOTS GROUP BACKING
GARCIA.
DO YOU THINK THIS GIVES AN
OPENING TO SOMEONE LIKE
ELIZABETH WARREN?
>> I THINK SO.
PROBABLY THE THIRD LARGEST CITY
IN COUNTRY FOLLOWING WHAT
HAPPENS IN NEW YORK WITH
DEBLASIO.
IF WE CAN ELECT CHUY BEATING
RAHM EMANUEL, IT WILL BE A HUGE
BURST OF SUPPORT FOR ELIZABETH
WARREN IF SHE WERE TO DECIDE TO
RUN.
>> Reporter: RAHM EMANUEL MAY
BE IN A MUCH TOUGHER RACE THAN
HE ENVISIONED BUT HE STILL HOLDS
ADVANTAGES THAT FAME, POWER AND
MONEY PROVIDE.
>> HOW ARE YOU?
GOOD, HOW ARE YOU?
>> Reporter: FOR HIS UPBEAT IN F
POLLS SHOWING HIM BEHIND, AND
CHICAGOANS WHO RELISH POLITICS
AS PARADES SEEM TO BE ENJOYING
THE CONTEST.
PBS "NewsHour", CHICAGO.
>> Ifill: THAT CHICAGO MAYORAL
RACE SHOWS JUST HOW QUESTIONS OF
EQUALITY, CLASS CAN PLAY OUT IN
POLITICS.
THE NEXT STORY TAKES AN EVEN
LONGER VIEW AT SOCIAL MOBILITY
AND OPPORTUNITY, AND HOW IT'S
CHANGING THE WAY WE RAISE OUR
CHILDREN.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN HAS THE STORY, PART OF
OUR ONGOING REPORTING, "MAKING
SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
>> I AM A LITTLE STRONG HERE,
AND I'M GOING TO NEED A LITTLE
ELBOW ROOM.
>> Reporter: DAVE BRICKNER,
CURRENTLY RANKED 31st WORLDWIDE
IN THE VIDEO GOLF BETTING GAME,
GOLDEN TEE.
BRICKNER OWNS AND RUNS THIS BAR,
IN PORT CLINTON, OHIO, TO
SUPPLEMENT HIS FIRST JOB DOING
MAINTENANCE ON WENDY'S
RESTAURANTS IN THE NORTHWEST
PART OF THE STATE.
>> I'M WORKING TWO JOBS TO MAKE
ENDS MEET.
>> Reporter: JIM CORNELL IS A
CARPENTER.
>> THERE'S ONLY PART TIME JOBS
FOR MOST PEOPLE ROUND HERE.
>> THE HAVES AND HAVE NOTS, IS,
YOU'RE DEFINITELY SEEING IT.
>> Reporter: RUST BELT DECLINE,
GROWING INEQUALITY.
A FAMILIAR TALE, PERHAPS, BUT
E GONETTING A NEW TWIST FROM
HARVARD POLITICAL SCIENTIST
ROBERT PUTNAM, WHO GREW UP IN
PORT CLINTON, RETURNED AFTER
DECADES AWAY AND WAS STUNNED BY
WHAT HE SAW: THE DEATH OF SOCIAL
MOBILITY.
"MY HOMETOWN WAS, IN THE 1950S,
A PASSABLE EMBODIMENT OF THE
AMERICAN DREAM," HE WRITES IN
HIS NEW BOOK, "OUR KIDS," "A
PLACE THAT OFFERED DECENT
OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL THE KIDS IN
TOWN, WHATEVER THEIR
BACKGROUND."
INCLUDING THOSE WHO LIVED ON THE
WRONG SIDE OF THE TRACKS.
>> THE KIDS WHO LIVED HERE WHEN
I WAS GROWING UP WERE POOR, BUT
THEY PLAYED WITH ALL THE OTHER
KIDS IN TOWN.
>> Reporter: HALF A CENTURY
LATER, HOWEVER...
>> THE POOR KIDS WHO LIVE HERE
NOW ARE LIVING IN A COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT UNIVERSE FROM THE REST
OF THE KIDS IN TOWN.
AND THAT'S LEADING US DOWN THE
ROAD TOWARD A, FRANKLY, A CASTE
SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: PUTNAM RECALLS THE
PORT CLINTON OF HIS YOUTHAS,
QUOTE, "A PLEASANT, FRIENDLY
TOWN OF (MOSTLY WHITE) PEOPLE,"
ITS LAKE ERIE SHOREFRT DOONTTED
WITH SMALL COTTAGES AND MODEST
RESORTS.
THE DOWNTOWN SHOPS THRIVED ON
THE GROWING PAYCHECKS OF THE
LOCALS, MANY OF WHOM WORKED AT
FACTORIES LIKE STANDARD
PRODUCTS, WHICH PROVIDED A
THOUSAND GOOD BLUE COLLAR JOBS.
BUT THEN THE LAYOFFS BEGAN, AND
STANDARD PRODUCTS WAS DOWN TO
FEWER THAN 500 JOBS IN THE 70s,
CLOSED IN THE 90s.
(IT'S NOW A HAZARDOUS WASTE
SITE.)
>> STANDARD PRODUCTS, THEY
CLOSED DOWN.
I WORKED THERE.
SILGAN PLASTICS, THEY CLOSED.
I WORKED THERE LIKE NINE YEARS.
>> Reporter: TODAY, ROBERT
SNIVELY GETS BY ON SEASONAL
LANDSCAPING WORK, WITH JOBLESS
BENEFITS AND FOOD STAMPS IN THE
WINTER, SUPPLEMENTED BY VISITS
TO THE ST. VINCENT DE PAUL FOOD
PANTRY.
ANN HECKERD MANAGED TO RETIRE
FROM HER FACTORY JOB BEFORE HER
PLANT SHUT DOWN, NOW RUNS THIS
FOOD DISTRIBUTION CENTER FOR
THOSE ON UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
AND DISABILITY.
>> WE HAVE 100 TO 115 FAMILIES
EVERY TWO WEEKS, USUALLY MORE AT
THE END OF THE MONTH.
THE JOBS JUST AREN'T THERE.
>> Reporter: NEITHER IS THE PAY.
THE AVERAGE WORKER IN OTTAWA
COUNTY, WHERE PORT CLINTON IS
LOCATED, EARNS 16% LESS, IN
INFLATION ADJUSTED DOLLARS, THAN
HIS OR HER COUNTERPART IN THE
EARLY 1970S.
IN THE LAST DECADE ALONE, CHILD
POVERTY IN PORT CLINTON HAS
QUADRUPLED-- FROM 10% TO NEARLY
40%.
AND THOSE ARE AVERAGES IN A CITY
WHERE YOU PASS TRAILER PARKS ON
THE WAY TO LUXURY DEVELOPMENTS
OF MULTIMILLION-DOLLAR HOMES.
>> WE'RE IN THE CATAWBA CLIFFS.
IT'S A PRIVATE COMMUNITY ON LAKE
ERIE.
>> Reporter: CHRIS GALVIN IS
HEAD OF THE LOCAL UNITED WAY.
>> BUT IT'S STILL ALL THE SAME
ZIP CODE.
43452 IS PORT CLINTON.
>> THIS WAS NOT A HIGH RENT
DISTRICT WHEN I WAS GROWING UP.
BUT OF COURSE NOW IN THE PAST 25
YEARS THIS HAS BEEN TAKEN OVER
BY HUGE MANSIONS ALL ALONG HERE.
YOU CAN SEE IN THE PARKING LOT
OF THE PORT CLINTON HIGH SCHOOL
BMWS THAT ARE DRIVEN TO SCHOOL
BY KIDS WHO LIVE OUT HERE.
>> Reporter: IN ROBERT PUTNAM'S
DAY, EVERYONE HUNG OUT TOGETHER
AT TONY'S SNACK BAR, NOW THE A
LA CARTE.
THE FUTURE WAS BRIGHT FOR THE
MEMBERS OF THE CLASS OF '59,
REGARDLESS OF THEIR
SOCIOECONOMIC BACKGROUND, BE
THEY THE RICH RAY LAMBERT (KNOWN
AS "CASEY"), OR VIRGINIA PARK,
WHO WAS POOR.
>> I GREW UP ON A FARM AND I WAS
ONE OF TEN CHILDREN.
SO OUR ECONOMIC STATUS WOULD
HAVE BEEN MUCH LOWER THAN
CASEY'S AND PROBABLY
CONSIDERABLY LOWER THAN BOB'S AS
WELL.
>> Reporter: BUT YOU DIDN'T FEEL
THAT DIFFERENCE?
>> NO, NOT MUCH.
I DIDN'T KNOW UNTIL I WAS A
SENIOR IN HIGH SCHOOL THAT HIS
FAMILWEREY  THE WEALTHIEST
PEOPLE IN PORT CLINTON.
>> THAT WAS NEWS TO ME.
I DIDN'T KNOW THAT.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Reporter: BUT YOU KNEW YOU
WERE BETTER OFF THAN OTHER KIDS?
>> NO.
I HAD THE SAME ALLOWANCE AS ALL
MY FRIENDS.
>> Reporter: AND WHEN YOU'RE
THINKING ABOUT SOMEBODY LIKE
GINNY, YOU DON'T EVEN KNOW HOW
MUCH MONEY SHE HAS OR DOESN'T
HAVE.
>> NO, NOT IMPORTANT.
WHY WOULD IT MATTER?
>> THOSE ECONOMIC THINGS-- I
KNOW THIS SOUNDS CRAZY NOWADAYS,
BUT THOSE ECONOMIC THINGS WERE
NOT AT ALL VISIBLE TO US KIDS.
>> Reporter: BUT YOUR PARENTS
BOTH HAD GRADUATE DEGREES,
RIGHT?
>> MY DAD HAD A GRADUATE DEGREE.
MY MOM GOT A COLLEGE DEGREE
WHILE WE WERE IN HIGH SCHOOL.
>> MY PARENTS BOTH HAD AN
EDUCATION THAT ENDED IN THEIR
SOPHOMORE YEARS IN HIGH SCHOOL.
>> Reporter: GINNY PARK WON A
SCHOLARSHIP TO COLLEGE, HAS HELD
AN ELECTED COUNTY OFFICE FOR 25
YEARS HERE.
HER RISE, SAYS PUTNAM, IS
TYPICAL OF HIS CLASSMATES.
>> 80% OF THE KIDS IN MY CLASS
HERE WENT BEYOND THEIR PARENTS'
EDUCATION.
SO, THIS WAS A PERIOD OF
ENORMOUS UPWARD MOBILITY HERE IN
PORT CLINTON.
>> Reporter: NOW, IF YOU'RE
WONDERING WHY WE'RE SUDDENLY IN
A BOWLING ALLEY, IT'S BECAUSE OF
A FAMOUS ARTICLE BOB PUTNAM
WROTE 20 YEARS AGO,
LATER TURNED INTO A BOOK:
BOWLING ALONE.
THAT'S PUTNAM AND HIS EIGHTH
GRADE TEAM ON THE BACK COVER--
RACIALLY, SOCIALLY, ECONOMICALLY
DIVERSE.
>> BOWLING IS BIG IN AMERICA--
MORE AMERICANS BOWL THAN VOTE,
SO IT'S A BIG DEAL.
BUT BOWLING IN LEAGUES, BOWLING
IN TEAMS, DECLINED BY ABOUT 80%
OVER THOSE ENSUING YEARS.
AND WHAT THAT WAS A SYMBOL WAS
THE FACT THAT WE WERE NO LONGER
CONNECTING WITH OTHER PEOPLE IN
THE WAY ONCE WE DID.
>> Reporter: AND THAT LOSS OF
COMMUNITY OR WHAT HE CALLS
"SOCIAL CAPITAL," SAYS PUTNAM,
IS BOTH A CAUSE AND A
CONSEQUENCE OF TODAY'S GROWING
ECONOMIC DIVIDE.
>> AMERICA IS SILENTLY BUT
REALLY IMPORTANTLY BECOMING
INCREASINGLY SEGREGATED BY HOW
MUCH YOU EARN AND HOW MUCH
EDUCATION YOU HAVE.
>> Reporter: PUTNAM IS CAREFUL
NOT TO SUGARCOAT THE 1950s.
>> THERE WERE SERIOUS PROBLEMS
OF RACISM AND OF SEXISM, AND
HOMOPHOBIA, OF COURSE.
BUT THE AMERICAN DREAM SORT OF
EXISTED HERE.
THAT IS, THE CHANCE THAT
EVERYBODY WOULD DO BETTER THAN
THEIR PARENTS AND POOR KIDS
WOULD NOT BE DISADVANTAGED.
>> Reporter: AND TODAY-- AND
TODAY WHAT WOULD HAPPEN?
>> WELL, IT'S NO LONGER THE
AMERICAN DREAM.
IT'S A SPLIT SCREEN NIGHTMARE
BECAUSE KIDS WHO ARE COMING FROM
WELL OFF BACKGROUNDS, WELL-
EDUCATED BACKGROUNDS LIKE MY
GRANDCHILDREN, ARE DOING BETTER
AND BETTER.
THEY'RE DOING BETTER IN SCHOOL;
THEY'RE MORE LIKELY TO TAKE PART
IN EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES;
THEY HAVE HIGHER TEST SCORES;
WHEREAS KIDS COMING FROM LOWER,
LESS-EDUCATED HOMES ARE DOING
WORSE AND WORSE.
>> Reporter: AS A FINAL
ILLUSTRATION, PUTNAM AND THE
UNITED WAY'S CHRIS GALVIN HAD
PUT US IN TOUCH WITH TWO OF
THOSE POOR KIDS.
ONE, A YOUNG MAN, CANCELED OUR
5:00 P.M. APPOINTMENT BECAUSE HE
GOT A SNOW PLOWING JOB.
HE RESCHEDULED FOR THE FOLLOWING
MORNING BUT FAILED TO SHOW.
THE OTHER, A YOUNG SINGLE
MOTHER, WAS SUPPOSED TO BRING
HER CHILDREN TO THIS ART EVENT,
ORGANIZED IN PART TO BRING RICH
AND POOR KIDS TOGETHER.
SHE TOO WAS A NO-SHOW.
IT'S A PROBLEM BOB PUTNAM FACED
WHILE DOING RESEARCH NATIONWIDE
FOR THE BOOK.
>> THE POOR KIDS OFTEN STOOD US
UP.
AND WHAT WE BEGAN TO REALIZE IS
THAT'S THEIR LIFE.
THEY DON'T HAVE CARS SO THEY'RE
DEPENDENT ON PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION AND IF THE BUSES
DON'T RUN, THEY CAN'T GET THERE.
IF THE BOSS CALLS AT THE LAST
MINUTE AND SAYS: YOU'VE GOT TO
WORK AN EXTRA SHIFT, THEY'VE GOT
TO WORK AN EXTRA SHIFT SO THEY
CAN'T GO THERE.
>> Reporter: AND SO, SAYS
PUTNAM, THE CHAOS OF POVERTY
FEEDS ON ITSELF, AND TODAY'S
POOR, UNLIKE THOSE OF PORT
CLINTON IN THE 1950s, AND OF
PRETTY MUCH EVERY OTHER PLACE IN
AMERICA, ARE INCREASINGLY OUT OF
SIGHT, OUT OF MIND, AND OUT OF
LUCK.
>> I MISSED IT.
>> Reporter: THIS IS ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN,
REPORTING FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR
FROM PORT CLINTON, OHIO.
>> Ifill: THE RACE IS ON TO MEET
THE GROWING NEEDS OF THE BABY
BOOMER GENERATION, THE YOUNGEST
OF WHOM TURNED 50 LAST YEAR.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MEGAN
HUGHES REPORTS ON THE PUSH TO
CREATE NEW HEALTH AND WELLNESS
TECHNOLOGY THAT OLDER AMERICANS
WILL WANT TO USE, AND INVESTORS
ARE INCREASINGLY EAGER TO BACK.
>> Reporter: REBEL DESK C.E.O.
KATHLEEN HALE MAKES THE CASE FOR
HER "TREADMILL DESKS", WHICH
RECORD USER ACTIVITY TO THE
CLOUD.
>> 35% OF OUR CUSTOMERS ARE OVER
45 .
>> Reporter: THIS IS JUST ONE OF
THE PITCHES BEING MADE AT 1776,
A WASHINGTON, D.C.-BASED
INCUBATOR WHERE START UP
ENTREPRENEURS COME TO SHARE
IDEAS.
IT LOOKS LIKE A YOUNG PERSON'S
GAME.
BUT TWO OF A.A.R.P.'S FUTURISTS,
JEFFREY MAKOWKA AND SANJAY
KHURANA, ARE ON PATROL, HOLDING
REGULAR OFFICE HOURS TO LISTEN
TO STARTUPS PITCH HOW THEY MIGHT
HELP OLDER AMERICANS.
IN ADDITION TO HEARING ABOUT THE
REBEL DESKS, THEY ALSO HEAR FROM
INFIELD HEALTH CO-FOUNDER
DOUGLAS NAEGELE.
HIS APP GIVES PATIENTS AND
CAREGIVERS PRE-AND POST SURGERY
INSTRUCTIONS ON THEIR MOBILE
PHONES.
>> IT'S PERSONALIZED TO YOUR
MEDICAL NEEDS SO OLDER HIP
REPLACEMENT PATIENTS WOULD  GET
ONE SET OF CONTENT AND YOUNGER
HIP REPLACEMENT PATIENTS GET A
SEPARATE SET OF CONTENT.
>> Reporter: NEARBY TWO
PHYSICIANS EXPLAIN THEIR CONCEPT
FOR A VIRTUAL GAME CALLED
BUSHYTAIL.
USERS MEET THEIR HEALTH GOALS BY
PLACING A WAGER IN A POOL WITH
OTHER PATIENTS.
IF THEY MEET THEIR GOAL, THEY
WILL GET THEIR MONEY BACK PLUS A
SHARE OF MONEY LOST BY
UNDERACHIEVERS.
>> YOU'RE BETTING ON GETTING
YOUR COLONOSCOPY AT AGE 50, BUT
AT $100, I'M GOING TO GET IT
DONE THIS YEAR.
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF STARTUPS
THAT DON'T SEE THE OPPORTUNITY.
>> Reporter: 1776'S  MEAGAN
RILEY SAYS THE INCUBATOR'S
PARTNERSHIP WITH A.A.R.P. IS
HELPING THEM TO CAST A WIDER
DEMOGRAPHIC NET.
>> SO 1776  PLAYS AN INTEGRAL
ROLE IN ACTUALLY MAKING THOSE
OPPORTUNITIES MORE APPARENT.
AND AGAIN IF IT IS A COMPANY
THAT MIGHT BE PROVIDING A
SOLUTION FOR SOMEONE IN THEIR
30'S, MAYBE THEY PIVOT A LITTLE
AND SUDDENLY THERE IS A MUCH
LARGER OPPORTUNITY.
>> Reporter: JUST HOW LARGE?
MORE THAN 100 MILLION AMERICANS
ARE NOW OVER THE AGE OF 50.
OXFORD ECONOMICS ESTIMATES THEIR
CONSUMER SPENDING ACCOUNTS FOR
$7.1 TRILLION IN ECONOMIC
ACTIVITY A YEAR.
IF THAT WERE THE GROSS DOMESTIC
PRODUCT FOR A COUNTRY, IT WOULD
BE THE THIRD LARGEST ECONOMY IN
THE WORLD.
JUST AFTER THE U.S. AND CHINA.
>> THERE'S A TSUNAMI OF OLDER
ADULTS COMING INTO THE
POPULATION, AND WE HAVE TO
DESIGN FOR THIS.
>> Reporter: RESEARCH SCIENTIST
BRAD FAIN IS IN CHARGE OF
PRODUCT TESTING FOR GEORGIA
TECH'S HOMELAB, FOCUSING ON
OLDER AMERICANS.
>> THEY'RE MORE SCARED OF
ASSISTED LIVING THAN THEY ARE OF
DEATH, AND LOSING THEIR
INDEPENDENCE AND SO FOR THEM IT
IS A LIFE OR DEATH ISSUE, THEY
TRULY SEE THE LOSS OF
INDEPENDENCE AS THAT LEVEL OF
IMPORTANCE AND TO THE EXTENT
THAT WE CAN SUPPORT PEOPLE
LIVING IN PLACE LONGER, THROUGH
TECHNOLOGY, NEW TECHNOLOGIES,
THEN I THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT,
WE OUGHT TO DO THAT.
>> Reporter: IN A NEW
PARTNERSHIP WITH A.A.R.P.,
FAIN'S LATEST STUDY TESTS HOW
WEARABLE FITNESS DEVICES LIKE
THE FITBIT ARE WORKING FOR OLDER
CUSTOMERS.
AND WHY LOOK AT WEARABLE
DEVICES?
>> WEARABLE DEVICES IS AN
EMERGING AREA RIGHT.
IT ALLOWS PART OF THE
QUANTIFIED-SELF MOVEMENT, WHERE
WE'RE STARTING TO LEARN A LITTLE
BIT MORE ABOUT OUR OWN BEHAVIOR,
GETTING A WINDOW INTO THAT KIND
OF BEHAVIOR THAT WE HAVEN'T
REALLY SEEN BEFORE.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE'VE NOTICED
WITH THIS KIND OF RESEARCH IS
THAT OLDER ADULTS, AND ADULTS IN
GENERAL, JUST REALLY DON'T KNOW
HOW MUCH ACTIVITY THEY HAVE
DURING THE DAY.
THEY ARE NOT GETTING THEIR
RECOMMENDED AMOUNT OF ACTIVITY
DURING THE DAY AND THESE DEVICES
CAN HELP MEASURE THAT, HELP
MOTIVATE THAT, HELP CHANGE
BEHAVIOR, AND THAT'S EVEN MORE
IMPORTANT AS WE AGE.
>> Reporter: ANDREW BARANAK, THE
LEAD INDUSTRIAL DESIGNER AT
GEORGIA TECH, GAVE US A QUICK
TOUR OF THE WEARABLE PRODUCTS.
>> THE FITBIT CHARGE IS ONE OF
THEY'RE NEWER OFFERINGS.
WE'VE GOT THE UP FROM JAWBONE,
AND WE'VE GOT THE BASIS, WHICH
IS A SMART WATCH TOUCH SCREEN.
THE WITHINGS PULSE, IT'S A
WE'VE GOT THE SPIRE, THIS IS A
LITTLE, A COOL LITTLE ACTIVITY
TRACKER FROM A STARTUP.
>> Reporter: THE RESEARCHERS
FOLLOW UP ON CONSUMERS TESTING
PRODUCTS THROUGHOUT THE STATE
INCLUDING NEIGHBORS TOVAH
MELAVER AND CATHERINE SHIEL IN
DECATUR, GEORGIA.
>> I CHECK HOW MANY STEPS I'VE
WALKED EVERY DAY.
I NEVER THOUGHT THAT WOULD BE AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THIS.
>> Reporter: BOTH OF THE WOMEN
SAY THE DEVICES HAVE MOTIVATED
THEM TO DO MORE.
MELAVER, AN ARTIST, SAYS IF HER
DEVICE TELLS HER SHE'S SHORT OF
HER FITNESS GOAL, SHE'LL PICK UP
A HULA HOOP AND GET HER BODY
MOVING.
>> I DON'T THINK OF MYSELF AS A
SENIOR, OBVIOUSLY, I'M OVER 50
AND SO, YOU KNOW 50 IS THE NEW
40 OR 30, I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT
IS.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS TODAY,
BUT I, YEAH, I FEEL LIKE I'M
ACTIVE, I DON'T FEEL LIKE A
SENIOR CITIZEN.
>> Reporter: BACK AT THE LAB,
64-YEAR-OLD JUDI MUCCI REPORTS
TO RESEARCHERS THAT SHE'S HAD A
VERY DIFFERENT EXPERIENCE.
>> THE TYPES OF THINGS THEY HAVE
ON IT FOR ACTIVITY ARE LIMITED.
>> OK, LIMITED IN WHAT WAY?
>> SOCCER, SWIMMING, I THINK THE
OTHER ONE IS TENNIS.
I THINK THERE WAS ANOTHER ONE.
AND THEY'RE JUST THINGS THAT I
DON'T DO AT THIS TIME IN MY
LIFE.
>> Reporter: AFTER 13 YEARS OF
HEALTH PROBLEMS, MUCCI SAYS SHE
APPRECIATES THAT THESE GADGETS
COULD HELP HER.
BUT SHE ALSO HAS PLENTY OF
ADVICE FOR THE INDUSTRY.
>> THE PRICES YOU HAVE TO WATCH
THE PRICES BECAUSE WE'RE ON A
LIMITED INCOME YOU KNOW.
>> DO YOU FEEL LIKE COMPANIES
ARE LISTENING TO THE VOICES
OF...
>> THEY'RE STARTING TO.
>> Reporter: A.A.R.P.'S JODY
HOLTZMAN SAYS HIS GROUP IS
PREPARING TO LAUNCH ITS OWN
INVESTMENT FUND DEDICATED TO THE
LONGEVITY ECONOMY.
HE SAYS THE GROWING AGING ADULTS
MARKET HAS LACKED THE INVESTOR
FRENZY SEEN IN THE SOCIAL MEDIA
SPACE.
HE SAYS THAT WAS SPARKED WHEN
FACEBOOK BECAME A PUBLICLY-
TRADED COMPANY, ALLOWING EARLY
INVESTORS THE OPPORTUNITY TO
CASH OUT.
>> WHAT WE SAW AFTER FACEBOOK
EXITED WAS THAT ALL OF A SUDDEN
EVERYONE WAS BUILDING FUNDS
FOCUSED ON SOCIAL MEDIA.
AND MY HOPE IS THAT WHEN THAT
FIRST BIG EXIT HAPPENS IN OUR
SPACE, THOSE TYPE OF INTERNAL
EFFORTS ALSO FIND THEIR WAY INTO
THE V.C.'S SO THEY START TO
THINK ABOUT THE LONGEVITY
ECONOMY AS AN INVESTMENT THEME.
>> Reporter: AS FOR THE FUTURE
OF WEARABLE FITNESS PRODUCTS,
SHIEL SAYS HER COHORTS MAY BE
SEEN AS LATE ADOPTERS, BUT THAT
INDUSTRY SHOULD PAY ATTENTION.
>> YOU KNOW THE STEREOTYPE THAT
OLD PEOPLE DON'T LIKE THE
TECHNOLOGY.
I WANT TO BREAK THAT RIGHT NOW.
I LOVE THESE TECHNOLOGICAL
DEVICES.
I KNOW HOW TO USE THEM.
I JUST NEED TO SEE HOW THEY'RE
GOING TO SERVE ME.
AND I DON'T WANT THEM TO RUN ME,
EITHER.
>> Reporter: IF ENOUGH OLDER
AMERICANS ARE AS TECH SAVVY AS
SHIEL, COMPANIES WILL HAVE
PLENTY OF OPPORTUNITY TO TURN
THEIR GOLDEN YEARS INTO GOLD.
MEGAN HUGHES IN DECATUR, GEORGIA
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: NOW, AN INTIMATE LOOK
AT THE CHALLENGE OF CARING FOR
AGING PARENTS.
JUDY WOODRUFF HAS THE LATEST
ADDITION TO THE NEWSHOUR
BOOKSHELF.
IT IS A SON AND HIS MOTHER AT
THE TWILIGHT OF HER LIFE, THE
SON WHO RETURNS FROM THE FAST
TRACKMAN HATTON LIFE TO THE
SMALL TOWN OF PARIS, MISSOURI.
IT'S ABOUT LOSS BUT ALSO ABOUT
DISCOVERY.
IT'S ABOUT STRUGGLE AND COURAGE,
BUT ULTIMATELY IT'S ABOUT LOVE.
THE "IT" IS BETTYVILLE BY GEORGE
HODGMAN.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: YOU SPENT YEARS
AN EDITOR BUT YOU'D NEVER
WRITTEN A BOOK UNTIL THIS ONE.
DOES THAT MAKE IT EASIER OR
HARDER?
>> I THINK THAT I ALWAYS, ALWAYS
WANTED TO WRITE A BOOK, AND I
HAD BEEN CARRYING AROUND LITTLE
SLIVERS, AND THIS EMOTIONAL
MOMENT JUST HAD TO -- ALLOWED ME
TO ACCESS EVERYTHING.
AND THE EDITING, I LEONARD LOT
ABOUT WHAT -- I LEAD A LOT
ABOUT WHAT I SHOULD HAVE BEEN
DOING AS AN EDITOR ALL THESE
YEARS WHEN I BECAME A WRITER.
>> Woodruff: FOLLOW THAT HOME
TO MISSOURI, A PLACE YOU LEFT
AND THOUGHT YOU MIGHT NEVER GO
BACK.
>> I AM SURPRISED TO FIND MYSELF
BACK AND ALSO AM SURPRISINGLY
HAPPY THERE.
I HAD LIVED ON MY OWN AND FOR
MYSELF IN A LOT OF WAYS, AND
IT'S NICE TO BE IN A DIFFERENT
KIND OF COMMUNITY FOR A LITTLE
WHILE.
I HAVE BEEN AROUND HARD-DRIVING,
AMBITIOUS, KIND OF SELF-CENTERED
PEOPLE, AND I'M ENJOYING A
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT KIND OF
LIFE.
I MEAN, IT'S INTERESTING BECAUSE
MY EAST COAST FRIENDS ARE --
WERE SO DETERMINED TO GET ME
BACK, AND THEY HAD SUCH NEGATIVE
ATTITUDES ABOUT THIS PART OF THE
COUNTRY AND, YOU KNOW, RELIGIOUS
FANATICS AND RIGHT-WINGERS AND
EVERYTHING, AND IT WAS A GOOD
LESSON IN LEARNING THAT THE
STEREOTYPES THAT I HAD SORT OF
ACQUIRED WERE NOT ALWAYS SO
ACCURATE.
>> Woodruff: I WANT YOU TO
READ A PASSAGE ABOUT YOU WERE
FIVE YEARS OLD -- YOUR MOTHER IS
A REMARKABLE PERSON, WHICH WE'LL
CAPTURE IN A FEW MINUTES OF THIS
INTERVIEW BURKS JUST READ THAT
ONE PASSAGE ABOUT HER AND HER
DRIVING AND TAKING YOU TO
SCHOOL.
>> "MY MOTHER ALWAYS DROVE FAST,
NEVER STAYED HOME.
IN THE OLD DAYS WE SPED ACROSS
THE PLAINS IN OUR BLUE EMPAL LA,
RADIO BLARING THE DEEJ'S
ALL-AMERICAN VOICE OF ST. PRICE.
SHE TOOK ME TO THE COUNTY LINE
WHERE I WAITED FOR THE BUS TO
KINDERGARTEN.
MY MOTHER TOO DAMN HIGH
STRURCHG, STANDING IN THE
BATHROOM, FUSSING WITH HER HAIR
AND SMOKING CIGARETTES.
I LOOK LIKE SOMETHING THE CAT
DRUGGED IN.
I LOVED POP MUSIC.
MY MOTHER AND I SANG ALONG TO
THIS DIAMOND RING, I LOST THAT
LOVING FEELING.
BETTY TOOK THE SHOE OFF HER FOOT
AND ALMOST FLOORED IT.
I LIKE FAST THINGS.
THE HIGHWAY BETWEEN MADISON AND
MOBLEY, MISSOURI, WILL ALWAYS BE
ONE OF THE PLACES WHERE I WILL
SEE MY MOTHER, HAIR WRAPPED IN
ROLLERS UNDER A SCARF WEARING A
PAIR OF SUNGLASSES TAKING ME OFF
INTO THE BIG WIDE WORLD ."
>> Woodruff: THAT'S SO GREAT.
IT'S FUNNY AND THE NEXT MOMENT
IT'S POIGNANT AND SAD.
THE MOMENT YOU WROTE ABOUT WHEN
YOU WERE GROWING UP IN MANY WAYS
IS THE SAME WOMAN YOU ARE
LOSING.
I KNOW SHE IS STILL ALIVE BUT
YOU ARE WITH HER, WATCHING HER
SLIP AWAY, AT THE SAME TIME.
>> I ALWAYS SAY THAT I'VE KNOWN
MANY BETES DURING OUR
RELATIONSHIP.
MAYBE IT WAS ME THAT CHANGED AND
NOT HER, BUT SEEMS LIKE, YOU
KNOW, I'VE SEEN HER GO THROUGH
SO MANY STAGES OF HER LIFE, AND
IN HER CURRENT INCARNATION,
EVERY DAY, I FEEL LIKE I SEE
SORT OF ALL THE BETTIES.
AT TIMES, IT'S LIKE IT'S ALWAYS
SAD WHEN YOU'RE CARING FOR AN
OLDER PERSON, BUT THERE ARE A
LOT OF LIGHTER MOMENTS, TOO.
SHE'S HERE AND SHE'S THERE AND
SHE'S GONE, AND WE SORT OF ARE
GRATEFUL FOR THE MOMENTS WHEN
SHE'S THERE.
>> Woodruff: HOW ABOUT AGING
PARENTS WHO MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE
DEMENTIA?
>> I THINK I'M A BAD PERSON TO
GIVE ANYBODY LESSONS ON
ANYTHING.
I'M AN IMPROVISER.
THE THING ABOUT THIS BOOK IS
THAT I NEVER THOUGHT I COULD DO
THIS.
I NEVER THOUGHT I COULD GET
THROUGH THIS PERIOD.
I COULDN'T KEEP A CACTUS ALIVE.
I NEVER HAD A PET.
I LOVE MY PARENTS SO MUCH AND I
HAVE ALWAYS BEEN SCARED OF
LOSING THEM, BUT I CAN'T COOK, I
CAN'T -- YOU KNOW, I'M -- I AM
SO SURPRISED THAT I HAVE BEEN
ABLE TO STEP FORWARD, AND I
THINK THAT IT'S KIND OF ABOUT
DOING THE NEXT RIGHT THING.
WE'RE NOT PERFECT.
WE DON'T KNOW.
NOBODY TEACHES US.
I THINK ABOUT ALL THE MOTHERS
WHO HAVE TAKEN CARE OF THEIR
KIDS AND FATHERS AND IT'S MY
TURN, YOU KNOW.
IT'S MY TURN, AND I WANT TO TRY
TO DO IT THE BEST I CAN.
THE LESSON FOR ME IS JUST --
JUST THE NEXT THING, AND IF YOU
CAN FIND A HAPPY MOMENT, IF YOU
CAN FIND THE GOOD MOOD, GIVE HER
AN ICE CREAM CONE AND TRY TO
MAKE THE MOMENT LAST A LITTLE
BIT LONGER.
YOU DO THE BEST YOU CAN DO, YOU
KNOW.
>> Woodruff: IT IS A LOVELY
BOOK.
BETTYVILLE IS THE TITLE.
GEORGE HODGMAN.
WE THANK YOU FOR SHARING IT WITH
US.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Ifill: FINALLY, TO OUR
"NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
THAT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
YOU, TOO.
STARGAZERS AROUND THE WORLD WERE
TREATED TO A DAZZLING LIGHT SHOW
THIS WEEK.
AS SEEN IN THIS TIME-LAPSE VIDEO
FROM NEW ZEALAND, BRIGHT SHADES
OF GREEN, YELLOW AND RED
PULSATED ACROSS THE SKY FROM
AUSTRALIA, TO EUROPE, TO PARTS
OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE PHENOMENON, OFTEN CALLED THE
NORTHERN LIGHTS, OCCURS WHEN
CHARGED PARTICLES FROM THE SUN
COLLIDE WITH ATOMS IN THE
EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE, USUALLY IN
NORTHERN CLIMATES.
AND THIS YEAR IT COULD BE SEEN
AS FAR SOUTH AS TENNESSEE.
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF
THE DAY:
U.S. OFFICIALS DISPUTED REPORTS
THAT A DRAFT NUCLEAR AGREEMENT
WITH IRAN IS CLOSE TO FINAL.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS SAID IT
CALLS FOR CUTTING IRAN'S
CENTRIFUGES BY 40%, FOR 10
YEARS.
SENATE REPUBLICANS TOLD THE
NEWSHOUR THEY WILL DELAY A BILL
THAT REQUIRES CONGRESSIONAL
APPROVAL OF ANY IRAN NUCLEAR
DEAL.
AND ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU DENIED HE'S REJECTED
ANY POSSIBILITY OF A
PALESTINIAN STATE.
HE SAID HE STILL WANTS A TWO-
STATE PEACE SOLUTION.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE, 18- TO
34-YEAR-OLD MILLENNIALS HAVE A
REPUTATION OF BEING THE
COUNTRY'S MOST RACIALLY TOLERANT
GENERATION.
BUT SURVEY DATA ON ATTITUDES
TOWARD RACE REVEAL A MORE
COMPLEX PICTURE.
WHAT CAN THESE POLLS ACTUALLY
TELL US ABOUT THIS MUCH-TALKED
ABOUT GENERATION?
WE HAVE A BREAKDOWN, ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
THAT'S pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, SUPREME COURT JUSTICE
ANTONIN SCALIA, OR AN ACTOR
PLAYING HIM, TAKES CENTER STAGE,
BUT THIS TIME IN A PLAY.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.